---
layout: page
authors: ["Sarah Brown"]
teaser: "how do you deliver exercises"
title: "Load Magic for Python and a call to discuss how we deliver exercises to learners"
date: 2018-09-27
time: "09:00:00"
tags: [ "Community", "CarpentryCon","Infrastructure"]
---

This post describes a teaching tip I shared at CarpentryCon and how it thrust me into deeper Carpentries involvement. It also aims to start a larger conversation about how we deliver exercises in workshops and how the lesson infrastructure can better support instructors and learners.  

### A teaching tip


When I was preparing to teach my first workshop, I
I didn't know logistically how to handle exercises. Exercises are an important part of learning, but what I found when I was getting ready to teach is that our infrastructure doesn't support a straightforward delivery of the exercises. I asked people for how they do it at the introduction meeting for the instructors and host of that workshop and they shared a polling tool for multiple choice questions and said otherwise they show it on the screen or paste in the eitherpad.  I asked at my preworkshop [instructor discussion session](https://pad.carpentries.org/instructor-discussion) and got the copy and paste to etherpad answer again. I felt that how we deliver the exercises was important to the learners experience.  I was afraid that a lot of context switching via copy and paste and flipping screens or looking up and down would interrupt the thinking and distract from the task at hand. I wanted to minimize the number of distractions, so the learners could focus on the exercises' content.  The exercises we provide are sometimes question answering from memory, but quite often are programming exercises that require writing code, especially in the python lesson I was about to teach.  

I was planning to use a Jupyter notebook to teach, it's a tool that I use in my daily research life and a good tool to reinforce the braoder concepts of reproducible research. I guessed that the notebooks might have something that could support my goal here, since I knew they were used a lot in teaching and even have related [grading tools](https://nbgrader.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). I found that cool features for the Ipython kernel that Jupyter notebooks in python use that are installed by default, not as optional extensions are called [magics](https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/interactive/magics.html). The [`%load` magic](https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/interactive/magics.html#magic-load) reads in a file(or excerpt of one) into a notebook cell for editing.  I decided to use this for the exercises of this workshop. As I went through the material to prepare for teaching, I also copied the exercises into separate `.py` files for this purpose.  I set them all up in a separate Github repository that also had a data folder.

Since Github also allows people to download a `.zip` of the repository, using Github to host it meant that I could keep my work-flow what I'm comfortable with, including last minute updates and still allow the learners to download only a file that they were already familiar with, since we were teaching git after python. I gave the learners a download link, had them unzip it and launch the Jupyter Notebook from that directory. Then we could load an exercise with `load code/keyword` I made a [jupyter notebook](https://github.com/brownsarahm/python-novice-gapminder-files/blob/master/instructor_resources/create_workshop_branch.ipynb) on how I used git branches to give the learners an original download, updates on day two, and post workshop content.

I have now taught three full workshops this way (SWC-python-gapminder at [UCSF](https://gboushey.github.io/2017-03-10-UCSF-Python/) DC-python-socialsci at [UC Berkeley](https://brownsarahm.github.io/2018-06-13-afog/) and [CarpentryConnectSZA](https://tenet-rccpii.github.io/2018-09-03-CarpentryConnect-JHB-Social-Sciences/)) and [mini workshop](https://kariljordan.github.io/2018-03-22-NSBE/) based on the [Python Ecology Lesson](http://brownsarahm.github.io/python-ecology-mini/)with Kari Jordan where load magic enabled us to cover enough to be interesting in only 90 minutes. Using load magic to the exercises has worked well each time. The helpers and co-instructors, many of whom have more Carpentries experience than me, have found it to be a helpful way of delivering exercises. Getting used to some features of the notebooks tends a little hard at the beginning for the learners. A few activities were to enforce concepts more than actually writing code, so those were best formatted as markdown cells instead of python cells, and switching cell types also caused some friction at the beginning.  By the second half of the lesson though, most learners seem comfortable with these activities. They seem to like the notebooks, in addition to seeing that python is powerful and I hope that the push to learn a little bit more about manipulating Jupyter notebooks makes using them in their own work more comfortable.  

### Sharing as a Newcomer

After Kari and I had the session at NSBE, she encouraged me to apply for  travel grant to attend CarpentryCon and I guessed that submitting an abstract would help my case, or at least justify using funds from my professional development budget at work. I submitted an [abstract](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentrycon/blob/master/Sessions/2018-05-30/08-Lightning-Talks-Session-2/4-abstract-sarah-brown.md) to give a [lightning talk](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentrycon/blob/master/Sessions/2018-05-30/08-Lightning-Talks-Session-2/brown-slides.pdf) on load magic as teaching tip and present a [poster](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentrycon/blob/master/Sessions/2018-05-30/08-Lightning-Talks-Session-2/brown-poster.pdf) on a proposal to update the infrastructure to better support this way of delivering exercises. I felt a bit of imposter syndrome, offering a tip on how to teach curriculum from an organization that was 20 years old when I had taught 1.125 workshops and suggesting to change infrastructure I had contributed to once in checkout, but everyone I had interacted with had told me it was a welcoming environment, so I did anyway.

My submission was accepted and I was awarded a travel grant to be able to attend CarpentryCon. After my lighting talk, I was invited to Johannesburg, South Africa for [CarpentryConnect](http://carpentryconnectza.org/).  At my poster, I was busy engaged in discussions and met Francios and other members of the lesson infrastrcuture committee. My input was welcomed and people were excited about how we can use the technology we teach in more flexible ways and smooth the operations of a workshop.  I was invited to join the [lesson infrastructure committee](https://carpentries.org/lesson-infra/) and encouraged to submit a blog post about using load magic.   


### A conversation on exercises

On the lesson infrastructure committee, we are considering changes to the infrastructure (styles repository) so that exercises can be rendered and exported in more flexible ways. With Github pages and the available automation support, we have a lot of powerful tools available that can make all sorts of things happen without changing the workflow for editing the _content_ of the lessons, much if at all. Before we start adding widgets, however, we want to know more about how the lessons are and will be used. Central to the carpentries mission is the in person teaching; we want the lesson infrastructure to support instructors, welcome community content contributions, and be easy on maintainers more than to have cool features. We've started the discussion with the maintainers, but we still need input from the broader teaching community to refine our plan and determine a plan of action.

Our current plan is to support at least the following:
 - parsing out exercise files into individual files that can be used, for example with `load` magic or opened in Rstudio as a fill-in-the-blank or psuedo code styled exercise.
 - a single page with all exercises for the lesson
 - a page per exercise

How do you deliver exercise content to learners?  What formats (rendered html, language specific script files, etc) would help you teach more effectively? Join the conversation on this [issue on the lesson infrastructure repository](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure/issues/22)
