---
layout: page
authors: ["Trevor Keller"]
teaser: "Congratulations to the 2025 Steering Committee"
title: "HPC Carpentry Elections: 2025"
date: 2025-07-01
time: "12:00:00"
tags: ["HPC Carpentry", "Elections"]
---

[Democratic elections for the HPC Carpentry Steering Committee successfully
completed on 1 July 2025, with 10 ballots cast](
https://secure.electionbuddy.com/results/ZWYKK574NT5Z).
The Steering Committee members are:

## Alan O'Cais

Currently the technical manager of MultiXscale, an EuroHPC centre of
Excellence. Previously acted as the Software Manager of E-CAM, an EU Centre
of Excellence in computing applications, while at Juelich Supercomputing
Centre (JSC). Also previously managed the user software and application
environment on the multi-PFlop JURECA hybrid cluster system at JSC. Between
2010 and 2015, was primarily focused within the LinkSCEEM-2 project helping
to develop a Virtual Research Community in Computational Science in the
Eastern Mediterranean region.

Maintainer of EasyBuild and EESSI, contributor to a number of open source
projects (in particular Magic Castle, which is relevant for HPC Carpentry).

## Annajiat Alim Rasel

Annajiat serves as a senior lecturer and coordinator of undergraduate
programs at Computer Science and Engineering within the School of Data and
Sciences, the largest school at BRAC University (BRACU), Bangladesh, under
the umbrella of the world’s largest NGO, BRAC. He is continuously learning
from the students and colleagues. He is grateful for having co-taught courses
on problem-solving, parallel, distributed, and high-performance computing
(HPC), natural language interfaces and processing, data science, modeling and
simulation, machine vision, ethical hacking, etc., along with
interdisciplinary workshops, training events, being a coach for APAC HPC-AI
Competition, ACM ICPC, etc. With kind contributions by HPC Carpentry
community members like Alan O'Cais (multiXscale & CECAM), Benson Muite
(Kichakato Kizito), Wirawan Purwanto (ODU), M. Abdur Rahman (BRACU),
Md. Intekhabul Hafiz (BRACU), and many others, he was able to co-teach the
HPC-related pilot workshops that had a profound impact on inspiring and
assisting underrepresented and underserved researchers and learners. The
Carpentries community has been a source of immense growth for him. He is
thankful to have had the opportunity to learn from everyone while serving the
global community.

He has served as an instructor, instructor trainer, mentor, curriculum
advisor, member of the executive council (EC, now transitioned into the board
of directors), instructor trainers leadership committee, code of conduct
committee (CoCc), instructor development committee, steering committee for
HPC carpentry curriculum development, organizing committee for CarpentryCon,
etc. Having joined the CoCc in 2022 and then the EC, he had the opportunity
to serve both groups as an EC liaison to the CoCc during 2022–2023. He
returned as a CoCc member in 2024 to continue the commitment of fostering a
safe and inclusive learning environment. Looking ahead, he is passionate
about bridging the digital divide, particularly through ICT4D, with a focus
on ICT4ED. He believes in the power of open science, open educational
resources, free/libre open-source software, tools, and good practices for
research, development, engineering, and education. This includes promoting
diversity, democracy, transparency, localization, accessibility, and other
aspects of FAIR and CARE principles. Together, he dreams to ensure a safer
community of practice, empower the community members, and build a larger
Carpentries community in Bangladesh, Asia, and worldwide.

## Andrew Reid

I operate a small HPC cluster at NIST, and my ulterior motive for all of this
is getting better users for my cluster and others. I feel very strongly that
the wider availability of HPC resources has not been matched by a greater
understanding of how to use them, and that this is an important skills gap in
many fields, and might be most acute for small research teams or
informally-assembled clusters, although this is hard to measure. I'm a huge
fan of the open-source continuous-improvement model of the Carpentries
broadly, and look forward to bringing that spirit to the HPC world.

## Trevor Keller

I assist Andrew with a research cluster and data storage at NIST, and have a
strong interest in helping scientists overcome barriers to using HPC
resources. I have served on the HPC Carpentry Steering Committee since its
inception, and enjoy preparing massive PRs to implement sweeping changes to our
lessons. I am excited for the Lesson Program Incubation process to advance, and
look forward to incorporating more workshop feedback to improve our offerings.
